Build your portfolio project (Week 2): MVP Complete

Progress
On the progress made so far, I will rate myself a 9/10. The progress was achieved as a result of me being able to complete the home page, the menu page where the price list of food and drink to be ordered can be done perfectly.

      Also,almost all the parts of my project are completed as planned. AlthoughI had an issue when it came to user placing orders, now I was able to add a “drop down button ” where the user can place their order using their credit card or debit card.

      Aside from that,the part of the project which is yet to be completed is making the user access the website using their google app or facebook account to log into the website.

Difficult Technical Challenges
With consumers shifting away from the dining out trend towards home delivery services, technological growth has paced up the growth of the service. 
However, building the app is not enough, it is important to maintain the app and keep it updated with necessary features overtime. Thus, some of this challenges include:
Maintaining accurate timing 
Ensuring instant delivery
Making delivery profitable
Handling issues related to location 

Another problem encountered is the problem of always updating the price list. If the estimated price of food after being added to cart, couple with the delivery charges were almost the same, the developer of the app wil continuously need to keep the app updated all the time

Thirdly, ensuring quality experiences by users is another challenge to constantly deal with. Customers love exploring apps that come with nice features. Therefore, the need to focus on the usability of this app especially at the peak hour when it runs slow is a frequent challenge. Also, making sure to run the promotional deals in areas like the home section or checkout pages to the assistance of reputed mobile app developers,you can get the right features integrated into these apps.

Inclusively,the means to optimize deliverycost.As a business head,one needs to understand the importance of upscaling and downscaling your services at different point in time.Therefore,hiring additional delivery personal involves considerable expenses.At the time,one need to maintain a fair wage scale in order to keep the employee.

Lastly,keeping in mind that a food delivery app is a tool for marketing, it is important to offer discounted prices for new customers, for the first few deliveries. Food  delivery apps,integrated with promo codes, offer double up as tools to convert new leads. 

Difficult Non-technical Challenges

With so many food delivery applications in place, the process has to get smoother but still, there are still a number of glitch facing it.The fame of food delivery app development is certainly getting at its peak and why not, as it is helping people have their favorite mean right at their doorstep.But when it comes to application development, every single service comes with its own set of new challenges. As we are discussing food delivery services, it is not that difficult to develop a food application. But the big challenge is exclusively related to its maintenance.

          However, some of the most non technical challenges i face are as follows:

         Firstly,This trend to deliver food right at the doorstep and it needs to be considered that the logistics process of this industry is quite complicated.Yes, the drivers here are not actually benefited from the GPS tracking facilities. Not only this, the menus and the inventory list need to be updated with the help of restaurant app development on a regular basis.


Yes, there also needs to be proper management of the orders which come in huge numbers on a daily basis with an excellent system for getting the order dispatched.

           Secondly, not keeping the price predictable. Whenever there is something new in the market, the biggest challenge comes in the form of competitors. Online food delivery applications are no different and it exclusively has big competition in the industry with so many applications in the store.With this competition, it exclusively becomes difficult for one to continuously stick to one price model. Yes, if the given rates are not pushing the sales higher then you must opt for a change.So, it is important when you are looking for on demand app development to keep flexible rates which can help you remain in the game and help customers avail the benefits they are looking for.

           Thirdly,logistics problem.if the logistics services are limited to a particular place, it  makes it very difficult to help users avail the maximum orders they are looking forward to achieving.

             Also,keeping the food high quality is another difficult non technical challenge i always encounter.it is important to make sure that the food quality is top-notch while being delivered to the customers. With food being packaged properly is a very big concern to have.Not using the right packaging material can hamper the quality of the food big time. So, it is important that one uses hygienic and compatible packaging materials which can keep the cuisine in top condition whatever the weather is.

